1. Never let the future disturb you. You will meet it, if you have to, with the same weapons of reason which today arm you against the present. - Marcus Aurelius

2. You should … live in such a way that there is nothing which you could not as easily tell your enemy as keep to yourself. - Seneca

3. Relentlessly prune bullshit, don’t wait to do things that matter, and savor the time you have. - Paul Graham

4. Success is based off of your willingness to work your ass off no matter what obstacles are in your way. - David Goggins

5. Problems only exist in the human mind. - Anthony de Mello

6. Just keep in mind: the more we value things outside our control, the less control we have. - Epictetus

7. Live your life like you’re the hero in your movie. - Joe Rogan

8. Keep your intention pure. Emotions will try to distract you. So keep going. That’s the cure. - Maxime Lagacé

9. If you make happiness your goal, you’ll be disappointed. If you make presence your goal, you’ll be satisfied. - Maxime Lagacé

10. Make the mind tougher by exposing it to adversity. - Robert Greene

11. We should live with the conviction: 'I wasn't born for one particular corner: the whole world‟s my home country. - Seneca

12. The more you seek the uncomfortable, the more you will become comfortable. - Conor McGregor

13. What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. - Tim Ferriss

14. It is the power of the mind to be unconquerable. - Seneca

15. He is a wise man who does not grieve for the things which he has not, but rejoices for those which he has. - Epictetus

16. Man conquers the world by conquering himself. - Zeno of Citium

17. Be tolerant with others and strict with yourself. - Marcus Aurelius Stoic Quotes

18. A gem cannot be polished without friction, nor a man perfected without trials. - Seneca

19. To be even-minded is the greatest virtue. - Heraclitus

20. If what you have seems insufficient to you, then though you possess the world, you will yet be miserable. - Seneca

21. It is not the man who has too little that is poor, but the one who hankers after more. - Seneca

22. It is more necessary for the soul to be cured than the body; for it is better to die than to live badly. - Epictetus

23. Life is a shipwreck, but we must not forget to sing in the lifeboats. - Voltaire

24. While we wait for life, life passes. - Seneca

25. Disgraceful if, in this life where your body does not fail, your soul should fail you first. - Marcus Aurelius

26. A man is as much a fool for shedding tears because he isn't going to be alive a thousand years from now. - Seneca

27. Too many people believe that everything must be pleasurable in life. - Robert Greene

28. Sometimes, even to live is an act of courage. - Seneca

29. When you arise in the morning think of what a privilege it is to be alive, to think, to enjoy, to love. - Marcus Aurelius

30. When someone is properly grounded in life, they shouldn't have to look outside themselves for approval. - Epictetus

31. Don’t allow yourself to be heard any longer griping about public life, not even with your own ears. - Marcus Aurelius

32. The whole future lies in uncertainty: live immediately. - Seneca

33. It can ruin your life only if it ruins your character. Otherwise, it cannot harm you — inside or out. - Marcus Aurelius

34. Self-control is strength. Right thought is mastery. Calmness is power. - James Allen

35. What you’re supposed to do when you don’t like a thing is change it. If you can’t change it, change the way you think about it. Don't complain. - Maya Angelou

36. No man is free who is not master of himself. - Epictetus

37. If change is forced upon you, you must resist the temptation to overreact or feel sorry for yourself. - Robert Greene

38. The true hero is one who conquers his own anger and hatred. - Dalai Lama

39. When we are no longer able to change a situation, we are challenged to change ourselves. - Viktor Frankl

40. Self-discipline and self-control determine the quality of your life more than anything else. - Ed Latimore

41. If you lose self-control everything will fall. - John Wooden

42. Be silent for the most part, or, if you speak, say only what is necessary and in a few words. - Epictetus

43. Self-control is the chief element in self-respect, and self-respect is the chief element in courage. - Thucydides

44. Always resignation and acceptance. Always prudence and honour and duty. Elinor, where is your heart? - Jane Austen

45. It does not matter what you bear, but how you bear it. - Seneca

46. Uncertainty is an uncomfortable position. But certainty is an absurd one. - Voltaire

47. Be a master of the mind, not mastered by the mind. - Zen proverb

48. The first rule is to keep an untroubled spirit. The second is to look things in the face and know them for what they are. - Marcus Aurelius

49. Men are of little worth. Their brief lives last a single day. They cannot hold elusive pleasure fast; It melts away. All laurels wither; all illusions fade; Hopes have been phantoms, shade on air-built shade since time began. - Sophocles

50. The art of being wise is the art of knowing what to overlook. - William James

51. The first principle of practical Stoicism is this: we don’t react to events; we react to our judgments about them, and the judgments are up to us. - Ward Farnsworth

52. Learn to be indifferent to what makes no difference. - Marcus Aurelius Stoic Quotes

53. Nothing is burdensome if taken lightly, and nothing need arouse one's irritation so long as one doesn't make it bigger than it is by getting irritated. - Seneca

54. A rational person can find peace by cultivating indifference to things outside of their control. - Naval Ravikant

55. Where you arrive does not matter as much as what sort of person you are when you arrive there. - Seneca

56. If it’s endurable, then endure it. Stop complaining. - Marcus Aurelius

57. Each man has a character of his own choosing; it is chance or fate that decides his choice of job. - Seneca

58. The willing are led by fate, the reluctant are dragged. - Cleanthes of Assos

59. Many men will meet me who are drunkards, lustful, ungrateful, greedy, and excited by the frenzy of ambition. - Seneca

60. To be stoic is not to be emotionless, but to remain unaffected by your emotions. - James Pierce

61. If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment. - Marcus Aurelius

62. Move toward resistance and pain. - Robert Greene

63. Pain is neither intolerable nor everlasting if you bear in mind that it has its limits, and if you add nothing to it in imagination. - Marcus Aurelius

64. Even if you are hurting, never let your competition see the look of defeat or even vulnerability on your face. - David Goggins

65. Warriors should suffer their pain silently. - Erin Hunter